# Comments

**Comments** is an abstraction layer for MongoDB that allows for easily
providing some commenting functionality.

## Usage

```javascript
new Comments(options)
```

Creates a new Comments object. This means, a connection to MongoDB is set up.

*   `options` is an object that defines some DB connection parameters.

    The default options are as follows:

    ```javascript
    {
      host: 'localhost',      // - hostname of the server where mongodb is
                              //   running
      port: 27017,            // - port that is used by mongodb
      name: 'website',        // - name of the mongodb database
      collection: 'comments'  // - name of the collection that contains the
                              //   comments
    }
    ```

---

```javascript
comments.saveComment(res, comment, saved)
```

Adds a new or updates a comment in the collection depending on if there already
is a comment with the same `_id` property. If `comment` does not define an
`_id` property, a new comment is created.

*   `res` is a string defining the resource the comment belongs to.
*   `comment` is an object that defines a comment. It is stored directly into
    the collection. Any prior parsing is up to you. `comment.res` should be
    defined for the later use of `comments.getComments`.
*   `saved` is a callback function that takes three arguments `(error,
    comment, action)`.
    `error` is an `Error` object, when an error occurred, otherwise it is
    `null`. `comment` is the saved comment object. `action` is a string. It can
    either be `'create'`, `'update'` or `null`, if an error occured.

---

```javascript
comments.getComments(res, [[properties,] options,] received)
```

Gives access to the comments of a resource.

*   `res` is a string defining the resource that contains the comments that you
    are looking for. If `res` is `null`, all comments in the collection will be
    found.
*   `properties [optional]` is an object that defines, which properties of the
    comments shall be returned.

    The default properties are as follows:

    ```javascript
    {
      _id: true,
      author: true,
      website: true,
      created: true,
      message: true
    }
    ```
*   `options [optional]` is an object that defines additional options according
    to [section "Query options"][mongodb-doc-queries] like _sorting_ or
    _paging_.

    The default options are as follows:

    ```javascript
    {
      sort: "created" // sort results by date of creation in ascending order
    }
    ```
*   `received` is a callback function that takes two arguments
    `(error, results)`. `error` is an `Error` object, when an error occurred,
    otherwise it is `null`. `results` is a cursor to the result set of the
    query. Look at [section "Cursors"][mongodb-doc-queries] for more
    information on how to use them.

---

```javascript
comments.count(res, counted)
```

Counts the comments of a resource or the complete collection.

*   `res` is a string defining the resource that contains the comments that you
    are looking for. If `res` is `null`, all comments in the collection will be
    counted.
*   `counted` is a callback function that takes two arguments `(error, count)`.
    `error` is an `Error` object, when an error occurred, otherwise it is
    `null`. `count` is the number of comments for the resource or in the
    collection.

---

```javascript
comments.close(done)
```

Closes the connection to the database.

*   `done` is a callback function.

---

### Facilities for a JSON-REST API

``` js
comments.getCommentsJSON(res, resp, received)
```

Writes a JSON object including the requested comments to a HTTP `ServerResponse`
object.

*   `res` is a string defining the resource that contains the comments that you
    are looking for. If `res` is `null`, all comments in the collection will be
    returned.
*   `resp` is a [`http.ServerResponse` object][http-server-resp]. (Please refer
    to the version of Node.js that you are using.)
*   `received` is a callback function that takes one argument `(error)`. `error`
    is an `Error` object, when an error occurred, otherwise it is `null`.

---

``` js
comments.parseCommentPOST(res, req, parsed)
```

Reads a url encoded string from a HTTP `ServerRequest` object.

*   `res` is a string defining the resource where the comment should be saved.
*   `req` is a [`http.ServerRequest` object][http-server-req]. (Please refer to
    the version of Node.js that you are using.)
*   `parsed` is a callback function that takes two arguments `(error, comment)`.
    `error` is an `Error` object, when an error occurred, otherwise it is
    `null`. `comment` is the parsed comment object.

---

``` js
comments.setCommentJSON(res, comment, resp, saved)
```

Saves or updates a comment for the defined resource and writes the corresponding
HTTP status code to the given `ServerResponse` object.

*   `res` is a string defining the resource where the comment should be saved.
*   `comment` is an object that defines a comment.
*   `resp` is a [`http.ServerResponse` object][http-server-resp]. (Please refer
    to the version of Node.js that you are using.)
*   `saved` is a callback function that takes one argument `(error)`. `error` is
    an `Error` object, when an error occurred, otherwise it is `null`.

## Installation

You need a running MongoDB before you can use **Comments**. On Debian

```bash
apt-get install mongodb
```

Then install **Comments** with npm.

```bash
npm install -g Comments
```

## Examples

For examples, look at the [tests][test-dir].

## Bugs and Issues

If you encounter any bugs or issues, feel free to open an issue at
[github][issues].

## License

This package is licensed under a [MIT license][license].

[mongodb-doc-indexes]:https://github.com/christkv/node-mongodb-native/blob/master/docs/indexes.md
[mongodb-doc-queries]:https://github.com/christkv/node-mongodb-native/blob/master/docs/queries.md
[http-server-resp]:http://nodejs.org/docs/v0.4.0/api/http.html#http.ServerResponse
[http-server-req]:http://nodejs.org/docs/v0.4.0/api/http.html#http.ServerRequest
[test-dir]:https://github.com/pvorb/node-comments/tree/master/test
[issues]:https://github.com/pvorb/node-comments/issues
[license]:http://vorb.de/license/mit.html
